yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
one water that is one of my eggs
everybody deserves fruit that is one of
my face everyone deserves housing that
is one of my eggs everybody deserves
clothing that is one of my bags thank
you for listening to my thanks change
the world so a big part of why the left
wing comes to the wrong answers is
because they begin by asking the wrong
questions and I grew up in an extreme
left-wing family my family - : left wing
would be an insult to the left wing I
mean my parents were communist
extremists they weren't even moderates
compared to other Communists a better
way to phrase this question is not about
what you deserve and what you demand the
government provide you with and not to
put too fine a point on it but let's
think for a moment about the meaning of
the word government they're supposed to
govern they're not supposed to house you
feed you clothe you write as opposed to
governing the economy the government
providing you with absolutely everything
in life it's not really what the meaning
the meaning of the word to govern is as
a verb right um
suppose instead of asking what do we
think we deserve and then giving a list
of all these things that you're
demanding to get for free suppose were
asked the question what percentage of
working people in the population are
employed by the government because those
are the people who are having all their
needs provided for by the government by
taxpayers dollars it might surprise you
to hear because these numbers really
don't appear in the mainstream press
they're not discussed in politics homily
might surprise you here that in Canada
it's about 20 percent so that's not 20
percent of the population it's 20
of the people who have jobs 20% of those
jobs are working for the government and
Canada is in danger of going bankrupt
it's very difficult for the taxes
generated by the other 80% to pay for
those 20% plus all the other things
governments have to pay for you know a
huge amount of responsibility that's on
the government's shoulders now a much
more interesting question to ask is what
is the ideal number what percentage of
people should be employed by the
government what percentage people should
have their needs met by the government
instead of 20% in Canada
it could be 10% and it could be 30% you
could actually go up and down look at
other countries okay an example of a
country that's around 10 percent
currently Peru Colombia and South Korea
those are all examples of countries were
about 10 percent of the workforce is
employed by the government and I would
not call them paradise and I would not
call them hell on earth they are doing
ok those countries they have their own
problems so what have you now who is
there who's up and about 30 percent
Oh Singapore so Singapore is famous
having a very active government sector
Norway 37% many people right now on the
American left-wing talk about Denmark
being a sort of ideal Society a hybrid
of socialist and capitalist elements in
Denmark 31 percent of the workforce is
employed by the government as having
their salaries paid by taxpayers is
public sector in this sense right is
Denmark the ideal is that the is that
the perfect balance in society or is it
Cuba a communist country at 77%
[Laughter]
that's a meaningful question ask what we
know what's the balance of private
sector and public sector that's ideal
and even though it may sound appealing
as propaganda the question being posed
here by John sack arse it's inevitably
going to come to all the wrong answers
because he's fundamentally asking all
right so my own set of values is in some
way compatible with the left wing and in
some ways incompatible with left wing
one very left-wing policy that I would
support would be eliminating the private
sector from education right
I don't think private for-profit
companies should operate prisons I think
there should be entirely government
public sector employees the prison
system likewise I don't think private
for-profit companies should be operating
schools for children I don't think
churches or mosques or synagogues should
operate schools for children I think
religion should be eliminated from
schools I think private for-profit
corporations should be eliminated from
schools that actually puts me on the
left-wing fringe in Canada almost nobody
on the political spectrum is going to
take this position because in Canada
that would mean kicking the Catholic
Church out of Education right there'll
be a big deal be a huge change the
Anglican Church - and so on and so forth
it would mean shutting down a lot of
private for-profit corporation
university education my perspective is
the same thing I don't think we should
have religious groups and for-profit
foundations and corporations offering
university level education out there so
the most extreme way to implement that
view of the world would be to make the
role of teacher and university professor
a direct public sector
employee in the same sense that members
of the military or government public
sector employees right they're paid with
taxpayers money they answer to a code
it's provided to them by that by the
government so on and that's it
where there is no private for-profit
role there's no management coming from a
church group nor from a for-profit
corporation what would be the outcome of
that it would mean that statistic we
looked at before Canada right now about
20% of all employees are government
employees public sector employees you'd
be bumping up that number you'd be
increasing that percentage the
population that's in that tax tax money
spending part of the economy and you'd
be shrinking the part of the economy
that's generating tax revenue that's
generating profit and value and new
products and innovating and so on for
the sake of that ideal and yeah you know
what one of the outcomes of my approach
to education would be that education
would be cheaper for everyone might not
be free but it would be dramatically
cheaper it could be more efficient and
more effective if it's managed well if
it's transparent if it's democratic if
it's accountable and it could be much
worse you could have the world's worst
most incompetent government bureaucracy
in charge of education doing a terrible
job that's it's not hard to imagine in
Canada where the quality of government
we have is very very poor so I just say
I'm not approaching this as someone who
idealistically presumes that the free
market has all the answers the free
market will never be able to provide
sewage treatment at a profit the free
market trying to provide prison services
at a profit I think has been tried and
failed it's proven to be a joke and I
also think it's deeply morally
reprehensible home now conversely should
the government operate casinos instead
of practic corporations should you have
government tax payers casinos who should
operate orphanages who should take care
of orphans do you really think that can
be
formed out to the private sector on a
for-profit basis the same way that
governments have tried to sign contracts
to have for-profit companies generate
electricity build roads and bridges the
same way the government tries to have
for-profit corporations take on as many
roles of the government as they can so
that more and more the economy is in
that profit generating side of the
equation and less and less is dependent
on draining taxpayers dollars
these are tough these are tough
questions and they're going to be tough
answers with long term implications
changing the shape of the society you
live in but just giving a list of
demands for all the things you think you
deserve and that you'd like the
government to provide you with for free
I've got to say I think that's a really
dead ended self-defeating political
discourse
[Music]